This chapter provides a brief overview over the Flycheck API.

You may use this API to extend Flycheck, e.g. by implementing new error
parsers or more in-depth error analysis.  You will also find this API
helpful if you want to develop Flycheck itself.

As said this chapter merely provides an overview over the Flycheck API.
The documentation is therefore rather brief.  For a definite reference
on a function or variable, consult its docstring via
@code{describe-function} and @code{describe-variable} respectively.

@menu
* Error API::                   How to create and inspect Flycheck errors
* Error parser API::            Utilities for implementing error parsers
@end menu

@node Error API, Error parser API, API, API
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Error API

Flycheck errors are represented by the CL structure @code{flycheck-error}.
@xref{Structures, , , cl}, for information about CL structures.

@deftp {Structure} flycheck-error @
  buffer checker filename line column message level

A Flycheck error with the following attributes, each of which may be
@code{nil}:

@table @code
@item buffer
The buffer object referring to the buffer this error belongs to.

Note that you do not need to set this attribute when creating errors in
an error parser.  Flycheck automatically keeps track of the buffer
itself.

@item checker
The syntax checker that reported this error.

@item filename
A string containing the filename the error refers to.

@item line
An integer providing the line the error refers to.

@item column
An integer providing the column the error refers to.

If this attribute is nil, Flycheck will assume the error to refer to the
whole line.

@item message
The human-readable error message as string.

@item level
The severity of the error message, as either @code{error} or
@code{warning}.
@end table

There are two constructors you may use to create errors:

@defun flycheck-error-new attributes
Create a new Flycheck error with the given @var{attributes}.

@var{attributes} are given as keyword arguments, for instance:

@lisp
(flycheck-error-new :line 10 :column 5 :message "Foo" :level 'warning)
@end lisp

@end defun

@defun flycheck-error-new-at line column &optional level message @
  &key checker filename buffer
Create a new Flycheck error at the given position.

@var{line} and @var{column} are the line and column of the new error
respectively.  The optional arguments @var{level} and @var{message} are
the level and the message respectively.

The @var{checker}, @var{filename} and @var{buffer} attributes may be
initialized as keyword arguments only.  Note that these keywords
arguments may only be used @b{together} with the optional arguments,
that is @var{level} and @var{message} must be specified explicitly to
use the keyword arguments.

If omitted, @var{buffer} defaults to the current buffer.
@end defun

@end deftp

The following functions are provided to work with errors:

@defun flycheck-error-with-buffer err &optional forms
Evaluate @var{forms} with the current buffer set to the buffer of
@var{err}.  If this buffer is not live, @var{forms} are not evaluated.
@end defun

@defun flycheck-error-line-region err
Get the error line region as @code{(@var{beg} . @var{end})}.
@end defun

@defun flycheck-error-column-region err
Get the error column region.

If @var{err} has no column, return @code{nil}.  Otherwise return the
region around the error column as cons cell @code{(@var{beg}
. @var{end})}.
@end defun

@defun flycheck-error-sexp-region err
Get the error expression region.

If @var{err} has an error column, return the region of the expression at
this column as cons cell @code{(@var{beg} . @var{end})}.  If @var{err}
has no error column, or if there is no expression at this column, return
@code{nil}
@end defun

@defun flycheck-error-pos err
Get the exact buffer position referred to by @var{err}.

This is the position that error navigation would jump to when navigating
to this error.
@end defun

@defun flycheck-error-format error
Format the @var{error} as a human-readable string.
@end defun

The following functions and variables may be used to analyze the errors
of a syntax check.

@defvar flycheck-current-errors
This buffer-local variable stores the errors of the last syntax check,
sorted by line and column number.
@end defvar

@defun flycheck-count-errors errors
Count the number of errors and warnings in @var{errors}.

Return a cons cell @code{(@var{no-errors} . @var{no-warnings})}.
@end defun

@defun flycheck-has-errors-p errors &optional level
Determine if there are any @var{errors} with the given @var{level}.

If @var{level} is omitted, determine whether @var{errors} is not nil.
Otherwise determine whether there are any errors whose level is equal to
the given @var{level}.
@end defun

@node Error parser API,  , Error API, API
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Error parser API

@defun flycheck-parse-xml-string xml
Parse an @var{xml} string and return the parsed document tree.
@end defun

@c Local Variables:
@c mode: texinfo
@c TeX-master: "flycheck"
@c End:
