The following people contributed to Flycheck.  Their help and ideas,
their support and patches are greatly appreciated.

@itemize
@item
@gh{bbatsov, Bozhidar Batsov} provided valuable feedback and
refinements, brought Flycheck to a larger user base by adding it to his
awesome @gh{bbatsov/prelude, Prelude project}, and added a Ruby syntax
checker using @command{rubocop}.

@item
@gh{dhaley, Damon Haley} helped to shape and test the PHP CodeSniffer
checker.

@item
@gh{dholm, David Holm} added C/C++ syntax and style checkers using
@command{clang} and @command{cppcheck} respectively.

@item
@gh{wyuenho, Jimmy Yuen Ho Wong} added the HTML syntax checker and the
jshint Javascript checker, and did valuable testing and bug fixing.

@item
@gh{kwitek,Krzysztof Witkowski} implemented @code{eval} support in
Flycheck commands.

@item
@gh{magnars/,Magnar Sveen} developed the awesome @gh{magnars/dash.el,
dash.el} and @gh{magnars/s.el, s.el} libraries, that drive considerable
parts of Flycheck's internals.

@item
@gh{maio, Marian Schubert} added the Perl syntax checker.

@item
@gh{markhellewell, Mark Hellewell} added the Puppet syntax and style
checkers.

@item
@gh{scrooloose, Martin Grenfell} created the awesome Vim library
@gh{scrooloose/syntastic, syntastic} which inspired this project and
many of its checkers.

@item
@gh{BinaryKhaos,Matthias Dahl} improved the performance of Flycheck's
temp file handling.

@item
@gh{ptrv, Peter Vasil} contributed syntax checkers for XML, Lua and Go
(using @command{go build} and @command{go test}), added unit tests and
did valuable testing.

@item
@gh{rdallasgray, Robert Dallas Gray} made error display customizable
with @code{flycheck-display-errors-function}.

@item
@gh{robert-zaremba, Robert Zaremba} added Go syntax checker using
@command{gofmt}.

@item
@gh{steckerhalter, steckerhalter} provided the PHP CodeSniffer checker.

@item
@gh{purcell, Steve Purcell} implemented many checkers, contributed
important ideas to the design of the checker API and engaged in
worthwhile discussion to shape this project.

@item
@gh{syl20bnr, Sylvain Benner} added syntax checkers for Elixir and
Erlang, and wrote the cool @gh{syl20bnr/flycheck-color-mode-line,
flycheck-color-mode-line.el} extension.

@item
@gh{thisirs, Sylvain Rousseau} added a syntax checker for POSIX shell
script using @command{bash}, and improved error parsing in the Bash
script syntax checker.

@item
@gh{yannick1974, Yannick Roehlly} added support for PEP8 naming errors
to the Flake8 syntax checker.

@item
@gh{vderyagin, Victor Deryagin} added the Rust syntax checker.
@end itemize

Of course we also need to thank @ref{Top, ,GNU Flymake, flymake}, the
first, respectable, though somewhat failed attempt at on-the-fly syntax
checking.

@c Local Variables:
@c mode: texinfo
@c TeX-master: "flycheck"
@c End:
