Flycheck provides on-the-fly syntax checking for GNU Emacs 24.
Essentially it is ``Flymake done right'' with

@itemize @bullet
@item
ready-to-use syntax checkers for a bunch of languages
@item
simple declarative checker definitions,
@item
checkers based on major modes,
@item
and a clean, concise and understandable implementation with decent test
coverage.
@end itemize

@noindent
@xref{Top, ,GNU Flymake, flymake}, for more information about
Flymake.

@menu
* Features::                    What Flycheck can do for you
* Installation::                How to install Flycheck in your GNU Emacs 24
* Activation::                  How to activate Flycheck for on-the-fly syntax
                                 checking
@end menu

@node Features, Installation, Introduction, Introduction
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Features

@itemize @bullet
@item
Automatic syntax checking after saving or insertion of new lines
@item
Error navigation with @code{next-error} and @code{previous-error}
@item
Built-in syntax checkers for:
@itemize @bullet
@item
CoffeeScript
@item
CSS
@item
Emacs Lisp (using the byte compiler and CheckDoc)
@item
Go (using @command{gofmt})
@item
Haml
@item
HTML
@item
Javascript
@item
JSON
@item
Lua
@item
Perl
@item
PHP (using the PHP Command Line and PHP CodeSniffer)
@item
Python (using @command{flake8}, @command{pylint}, or @command{pyflakes})
@item
Ruby
@item
Sass
@item
Shell scripts (using Bash, Dash, or Zsh depending on the type of shell
script)
@item
TeX/LaTeX (using @command{chktex} or @command{lacheck})
@item
XML
@end itemize
@item
Easy customization
@item
Easy declarative API to define new syntax checkers
@end itemize

@node Installation, Activation, Features, Introduction
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Installation

Install the ELPA package from @uref{http://melpa.milkbox.net, MELPA} or
@uref{http://marmalade-repo.org/, Marmalade} using @kbd{M-x
package-install RET flycheck}.  The former is the @emph{recommended}
repository.

Neither of these repositories is included in GNU Emacs by default.  You
need to enable these repositories explicitly.  For instance, to add the
MELPA repository, add the following code to @file{init.el}:

@lisp
(require 'package)
(add-to-list 'package-archives
             '("melpa" . "http://melpa.milkbox.net/packages/") t)
(package-initialize)
@end lisp

Flycheck is written and tested against GNU Emacs 24.2 and newer.  It
should work on GNU Emacs 24.1, too.  Earlier releases of GNU Emacs,
especially GNU Emacs 23 and before, and other flavors of Emacs
(e.g. XEmacs, Aquamacs, etc.) are @b{not} supported.  Flycheck may or
may not work, the latter being more likely.

Most checkers depend on external tools to perform the actual syntax
checking.  Use @code{flycheck-describe-checker} to get help about a
syntax checker and its dependencies.

@node Activation,  , Installation, Introduction
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@section Activation

Enable @code{flycheck-mode} in your @file{init.el} file:

@lisp
(add-hook 'prog-mode-hook 'flycheck-mode)
(add-hook 'text-mode-hook 'flycheck-mode)
@end lisp

@noindent
Alternatively, use @kbd{M-x flycheck-mode} to manually enable Flycheck.

@c Local Variables:
@c mode: texinfo
@c TeX-master: "flycheck"
@c End:
